**Interactive Observation: Elevators**

For my observation, I looked at the elevators in C2 and thought about how they are designed to interact with us. First thing I noticed is how you can see which floor either elevator is currently on only the ground floor. On other floors, you just have to wonder which elevator will come to you. This also means that sometimes, when you wait too long and would rather take the stairs, there is no way for you to cancel the call you have already made. Although you can cancel floors once you are inside the elevator, you cannot cancel the elevator itself. Last thing that does not work is that you do not get to really choose which one you want to call. The elevators seem to decide which one will be called based on the direction you want to go. This doesn’t make a huge difference, but when you want to get on a specific elevator (e.g. putting up posters inside), this could be of inconvenience. 

Things that work well are the lights and sounds that indicate whether an elevator is going up or down. When both directions are called for, it is hard to tell just by the sound in which direction the elevator is going. But the light that shines (top circle or bottom circle) makes it easy to identify. For those who are visually impaired, or for those who are too glued on their phone screens and do not look up, the elevator also says “going up” or “going down” once the door is open. Although there are many design constraints that inconvenience us, once the elevators arrive, they are quite helpful and efficient.
